hello everyone and my name is Kyla
diamond I'm a fourth year undergraduate
here at Oxford studying maths and
computer science and I was the youngest
ever champ on countdown okay can you
tell us what is what is countdown hi I
can yes so it's a quiz program on
channel walls been going since early 80s
the basic idea is you get given nine
letters you can choose vowels and
consonants and you've got to make the
longest word possible out of those
letters I got quite a sneaker for
getting erecting and with oh my my young
innocent mind thought nothing of it and
I simply was considering the the
structure of a building
however the dark secrets have since been
revealed to me so you have a bunch of
letters rounds like that and then you've
got a few numbers rounds as well where
you get gets given six smaller numbers
and a bigger target and you've got to
make the target number with the six
numbers and your basic adding
subtracting multiplying dividing 75 25
and your four small are ten to eight and
four and your target is seven hundred
and six and your time starts now
[Music]
mingle opposed
treating
[Music]
spies right and so this one you look at
75 times 10 straight away gets you near
not quite near enough so if you take off
the four before you times my 10 then
that has the effect of doing 75 times 10
minus 4 times 10 so that gets us to 710
here and at that point we're only four
away 8 over 2 is the fall and that's 706
and then the game finishes on a
conundrum which is just an eyelet around
the gram and you have to beat your
opponent on the butter and to get either
the final 10 points of the game III
unscrambled a conundrum that was long as
bond and also got a bit of a chuckle and
subnormal in case you're wondering so
how did you end up on it as
eleven-year-old 11 yep and so it's very
good question and are you so with my mom
as a kid as you say coming home from
school and watch it and I picked up my
letters remembers my words from that and
I decided I was actually getting quite
good at it and it's the only it was at
the time the only show in the country
that the only Christian in the country
that let under-16s on so I thought as a
ten-year-old I thought hang on I'll give
it a go why not yeah it's been a couple
of people before me who'd gone on I
think there were eight years old before
me and I thought the faith then at my
can't I so I went for an interview and
they they like me so got my I've got a
place on the show and and managed to do
reasonably well so I'm City just I don't
you know this car you're gonna get
embarrassed about this do you know that
you're the youngest octa champ on
countdown for the last 20 years
[Applause]
I'll tell you okay you did what 7500
weeks I got to the semi-final yeah so
you have to win eight shows in a row and
before they kick you off and say right
we've had enough for you
so I did the eight shows and I was 40
going to court finals I want my cup
final blocks my semi-final so let's see
do you basically did par for the course
yes what seed right exactly I'm sure
that's exactly how well I should have
done
[Applause]
what was the story you're telling about
cushions yeah so obviously I was a wee
little lad back then and I struggled to
see over the desk and the cameras
couldn't quite pick up my face so I had
to I had to sit with two extra big
cushions on my chair and so that they
could so they could actually see me so
that the audience could could could see
who I was
let's go to six more please one seven
ten to four and three and your target is
402 your time starts now
[Music]
no I know
okay
[Music]
[Applause]
shortly
[Music]
the Train
those proper waiting and but in general
the 10 is your friend and so we're going
to look at do 40 times 10 so you can get
the other 10 by taking 7 plus 3 multiply
that by 4 gives us 40 then 40 times 10
gives us 400 and just add the two one at
the end how was the whole experience
like you know I guess it's being on TV
Jen was pretty fun but like as I love
you all surely it was just like oh my
god it was incredible yes and to have an
actual studio audience watching you and
like cheering you on and stuff you've
got 10 or so cameras pointed at your
face at any time you've got these
actress celebrities in front of you so
you have Carol Vorderman was very famous
on countdown for putting the numbers up
and for getting me getting the answers
right with the contestants kidding she
changed halfway through my filming as
well as she was replacing Rachel Riley
who was a lovely young and lovely young
woman who actually graduated massage as
well she did yeah and so we got the
chance to meet all these all these big
names backstage Rachel actually said
Lester and on my first show with her it
was also her one of her first show as
well she said you're probably more
famous than I am I got a little worried
yeah yeah your trajectory's it is a fake
movie don't know I mean look at me now
we'll have four large again please 25 50
75 and 100 you have a three and a two
late target is 912 your time starts now
[Music]
[Applause]
mmm don't you have anywhere near there
actually and there's a really cool trick
you can do with four large to get to 937
but unfortunately not close enough here
so I only managed 95 which isn't close
enough to get any points sadly and which
is quite upsetting that's a very tricky
one so yes to do this in the past
reunion surely love tea so I got invited
back for a couple more special episodes
after that and still as a kid soon as a
kid yeah and so I was about 12 at that
point and again though these were very
good opponents who didn't do very well
but wasn't just delighted to be right
back yeah went on most recently in our
16 which was another little special
episode again yeah well let's gloss over
well I'd love to go back on in all
honesty but peak ability was 11 yes they
were as you said you've been watching it
so much that you were like top form and
then it's kind of yeah details in flows
unfortunately and I think I have the
surprise factor on my side at that point
as well yeah and maybe you could do the
eight hour take hats I would love to
yeah if you're watching if you watching
chill reason and Jimmy get me on I would
absolutely love to do that looks like a
right I can do the math position bit as
well yes you can take do not as the
naked mathematician will go I can do
that in my underwear you know do a real
good actually
and then I'd keep a top on if that's all
right right okay this is this is now hey
our tank has producers watching yes if
you're watching those two this is it
you